WORLD RENDERING PROBLEMS
14-15 June - When making the scene changing program, I wrote up a function to load the tutorial,
and a seperate function to load the market. I later found this to be repetitive as
I would need to create a function for each level. So I decided to compress the functions
into one that could handle everything. This lead me to creating a class each for the tutorial,
market, and monster levels, which should allow me to turn everything on and off easily. 
When switching scenes, I got an error that manager.new_scene didn't exist. I fixed this by
setting market_world and tutorial_world to None at the very begining, then in the switch_scenes
function, I checked if the new_scene was None, then checked the old_scene's gate name to discover
what the new_scene should be, then initialized the correct scene.
I had to change the entities lists from game_state to the new class, in the collision detectors.

It went from:
def load_market(self):
        if self.game_state.location == 'tutorial':
            for entity in self.game_state.tutorial_entities:
                entity.disable()
            for entity in self.game_state.tutorial_colliders:
                entity.disable()
        if hasattr(self.game_state, 'market_entities'):
            for entity in self.game_state.market_entities:
                entity.enable()
            for entity in self.game_state.market_colliders:
                entity.enable()
        else:
            create_market_world(self.game_state)
        print_on_screen('-Market-', position=(-0.1,0.45), scale=3, duration=3)
        self.game_state.location = 'market'
        self.player.position = (0,0,0)

To:
def switch_scenes(self, new_scene, old_scene):
        """."""
        scene = old_scene.gate.name.split('.')[1]

        if new_scene == None:
            if scene == 'market':
                self.market_world = MarketWorld(self.game_state)
                new_scene = self.market_world

        new_scene.enable()
        for entity in new_scene.entities:
            entity.enable()
        for entity in new_scene.colliders:
            entity.enable()
        old_scene.disable()
        for entity in old_scene.entities:
            entity.disable()
        for entity in old_scene.colliders:
            entity.disable()
        
        print_on_screen(f'--{scene.title()}--', position=(-0.1,0.45), scale=3, duration=2)
        self.game_state.location = scene
        self.player.position = (0,0,0)

-
FIXED: When I added a second gate in the market that would lead to the monsters, I had to rename 
the gate since there were multiple. This led to the switch_scenes method no longer working. To fix
it, I changed the name of the gates from gate.{destination}, to gate.{origin}.{distination}. I then
changed the method to set old_scene to the variable containing the old world using a dictionary, 
and set the new_scene to a variable containing the new world. But I had to check if the new world
had been created yet.
-
FIXED: When I added the two gates to the LevelCreator class, I had to figure out where the gates
went, since the class could be initialized as any level and needed a gate that returned the 
player to the previous world, and one that sent them to the next world. To fix this, I checked 
the player location, then got its index in the locations list and added/subtracted 1 to get the
new worlds. But the next world would take me to the first world, and the previous gate took me to
the tutorial. After debugging, I realised I was setting the player location after I'd created the
class. To fix this, I simply updated the player location before I created the world.
-
FIXED: When I walked up to the gate on a good computer with debug mode on, I'd inch close to the
gate to test it. It went red when the orange cube tuched it, but I didn't teleport. I needed
my tiny hitbox to tuch the gate for me to teleport. I fixed this by increasing the size of my 
hitbox to that of the orange cube. Upon further inspection, I realised that tiny hitbox wasn't a
hitbox, but actually the raycasting. I set the distance from 0.1 to 0.5 and it worked perfectly.
-
FIXED: When I was replacing the portal with a more recognisable model, I had to spend a while
figuring out how to put multiple parts of the portal into the game. Finding the right textures, 
trying to get normal maps to work. Eventually I gave up on the normal maps and tried to get the 
scale and positioning right. I got the entire portal done except for the vertex, and after spending
hours on trying to position it correctly, I tried: changing its location and origin point in the
blender file, trying to change each axis individually in code, trying to change its origin point
position, switching from creating the object in super initializer to standard initialization,
creating a vertext entity outside the class. Eventually, the last one worked, but then I had to
integrate it into the gate class. To get its scale right I had to create an anchor object so it
wouldn't look warped. After all this, I finally figured out that I was trying to change the
position_y, position_x value, when I should've been trying to change the y, x value.
-
FIXED: When I was getting the gates to only teleport the player after they'd defeated the boss, I
quickly got the animation sequence working, but then struggled to deny the player if the boss wasn't
defeated. I tried adding a complete variable into the gate class, then using hit_info to extracted
it to determine if the player should switch scenes. But it turns out hit_info can't see custom 
variables, so I had to put it inside the name. While I was attempting this, I realised I could just
disable and enable the gate's collision_box based on complete. This worked fine, except for the fact
that when disbaled, the player could walk right through the gate, which made me scrap the idea and went
back to the name approach. When I changed self.gate.name, I forgot to realise that the raycast was
actually hiting the collision_box entity, so after a bit of debugging I changed the collision_box
name to gate.location.complete, set the raycast to look for the complete, and it worked.
-
FIXED: When I was trying to disable player movement while going through the gates so they wouldn't
shoot forward into other portals or out of bounds, I ran into a problem where teleporting disabled the 
player's movement. Through debugging prints I realised that immediantly after the teleport method, the
movement_locked variable was False, but when I tried to do anything, it became True. I tried debugging
my entire code and running through it, but the variable never changed to True. I assigned a keybind to 
print out the variable value, and I used it the moment I teleported - it showed False, which was good.
But as soon as I closed the teleport hud, it printed True. This finally showed me that I was setting
movement_locked to be not movement_locked everytime I open/closed the teleport hud. I fixed the issue by
setting the movement_locked variable to equal teleport_hud.enabled, so it will only be true when the hud
is open.



WORLD CREATION PROBLEMS
FIXED: When creating the forest in the tutorial area, I started with a massive list containing the
pre-chosen position of each tree. Then I looped through the list to plant each tree. This was
incredibly inefficient, so I create a 2d map array which had the entire forest plotted out in
a dozen lines. I initially filled the entire area in with over a thousand trees, but this tanked
the framerate down to 20fps, so I knew I couldn't do it that way without breaking a requirement.
Instead, I shrunk the forest down to a minimum size with just having the trees as border walls,
and shrunk the main perimeter wall to fit the new forest size. It took a bit of time to get the
exact coordinates right and the tree spacing and map array.
-
FIXED: When I began adding in custom monster world, specifically the first(centaur) world, I
would fall through the floor either directly after loading into the world, or after I took a step,
even though the collider was set to mesh. I did some debugging by disabling the player falling
mechanics, which stopped the player from falling through the world, but still meant I could walk
through the world walls. I noticed there was no ground being detected beneath my when I entered
the centaur world, which is why turning off the player falling system worked. I added a keybind
to control the player y-level to check if it was just a problem with the distance between the
player and the world, but the detector still returned false. I came up with a theory that the
raycast wasn't detecting anything since it had been teleported right into the center of the world.
I placed the world way below where I spawned and lowered my gravity so I would hit the world, but
as soon as I took a step, I fell right through. After much debugging, I gave up on the mesh
collider and resorted to creating multiple custom hitboxes. But the first one I tried making
wouldn't appear in the world. After much debugging and stripping it of everything non-essential,
I realised I said mode='cube' instead of model='cube'. I would eventually figure out when
building the basilisk world that for the mesh collider to work, the model needs to be a .obj
instead of a .fbx.
-
FIXED: When making the basilisk world, I noticed that when I used a gate to go from the centuar world to
the basilisk world, I would immediantly teleport to the center of the centaur world. I quickly
noted that the location message was showing basilisk and centaur at the same time, so I deduced
that I was being teleported to the basilisk world, then immediantly teleported back to the centaur
world. I was being positioned at 0,0,0 because since the centaur world had already been created, it
wouldn't use the custom world spawn and was defaulting to 0,0,0. The solution came to me while writing
this, and that was to position every world map so that its spawn point would be at 0,0,0. This might've
worked, but it definitely didn't later. No matter how I moved the map, I would still spawn directly into
the basilisk centaur gate and be teleported right back to the centaur map. To fix it, I removed the
player teleporting to the map spawn, and tweaked some world positioning coordinates.
-
FIXED: When making the gorgon world, I started off with a model that worked pretty well. It didn't take
long before I got it into the right position and scale. But then I realized since there was only a single
texture material, it was hard to percieve depth. So I added a material slot in blender and did some texturing.
I also got some statues from the internet for decoration. But I had multiple problems when trying to 
bake the material slots together. I couldn't figure out why I couldn't add thickness to the model using
the solidify modifier to make its collisions better. Eventually I figured out I needed to apply all 
transformation to the model, which solved that problem. Next I needed to bake the materials together, but
when I unwrapped, the textures got stretched, but If I increased the size of the uv map it would fail to
bake. I tried increasing the resolution of the texture image which didn't do much. After several hours of
trialling and debugging and researching, I learned that I needed to use a UV mapping node combined with
multiple uv maps selected in a certain order. This finally allowed me to combine the materials into a
single image, but when I loaded it into the game, it was extremely pixalated, even though that had been
one of my main goals during the baking and problems I had. I tried doubling the resolution of the texture
again, but that didn't result in much, so I was forced to return to the original model and texture.
-
FIXED: When the first time I tried to get the statues in, I accidentally exported the whole blender file,
so I re-exported it only to find the entire file in the map still. I realised that ursina must be saving
the file internally and saving it based on name, so I had to change the file name each time I exported it.
But for some reason when I exported the fbx(statues) file, it loaded into the world as mirrored, unlike the
obj(terrain). To fix this, I used a mirror modifier on the statues in blender and exported the mirrored
statues, which came out fine. I did find their texture extremely pixalated, so I increased its resolution
too.
-
EFFICIENCY: When I was centaur world, the world was nice and flat. To get the monsters placed into the world
where I liked them, I didn't type in random numbers and hoped for the best. Instead, I created a map array
the size of the world, and populated it with trees and centaurs, then when the world was first created, I
went through the map array to place each tree/centaur. This method worked fine for the basilisk world too.
When I built the gorgon world, the terrain was complex, with underground tunnels, so I needed a more efficient
approach. I created a simple class that created dozens of cubes at spawn, which I could drag around the entire
map. I would place these where I wanted the monsters to be, and each time I did the exact coordinates of the
cube would be printed, allowing me to add the coordinates to an ever-increasing list of monster locations.
This approach allowed me to place the monsters efficiently in the gorgon world. When it came time to do the
chimera world, which was even more complex than the gorgon world, I first started off with the cube method,
but a problem with it was that it didn't work with the y-axis, meaning cubes would hide inside the ground
and I'd have to guess the y-level. I came up with my most efficient and easiest strategy to get around this,
but creating a text at the top of my screen and displaying the player coordinates live. This allowed me to
simply walked to were ever I wanted the monster, record the player coordinates, and list them in an array.



COMBAT SYSTEM PROBLEMS
FIXED: When creating the combat system, I added in the monster, gave it a hitbox, damage, and
health, and gave it movement and distance checks, allowing it to move up to the player and attack
them when close enough, taking away 1 health point per second. But when I tried to have the player
attack the monster in retaliation, nothing happened. After a bit of debugging, I realised I was
checking to see if the mouse.hovered_entity had health. I initially thought the entity was the
monster itself, but it was actually the collision box that the player was hitting, as I discovered
when I gave the collision box a name and printed it when attacking. I thought of adding the monster
stats right into the collision box entities, but that felt wrong, so I attempted to create an
on_click method for the monster, but that ended up not being called, or calling as soon as the
player was in range. I thought about going back to the collision box idea, but thought of an idea
to fix the monster not being instantly destroyed by only calling the on_click method when the
player actually clicked on the monster. I still ran into a problem where the code was trying to
find a monster that had been destroyed when checking for collisions. To fix this, I decided to 
allow the player to walk through monsters, meaning I didn't need to check their hitbox.
-
FIXED: When trying to use a gate, since the monster was destroyed, it couldn't be disabled, 
creating errors. To fix this, I tried changing the switch_scenes method from using an entities 
list given by TutorialWorld, to going through every child of TutorialWorld itself, and going
through every child of those children to catch the collision boxes. This allowed me to go through
the gate, but didn't disable anything. Instead, I parented everything in the world to the 
TutorialWorld entity, allowing me to disable everything with one line.
-
FIXED: When I started adding in more monsters, I added medusa, which worked fine, then I added the
basilisk, which was tiny. I tried changing the scale, but that made the collision box grow massively. 
I eventually figured out that the collision box had hard-coded position and scale variables that 
were designed for the centaur. To fix this, I added in collider_scale and collider_position into
the monster stats.
-
FIXED: When implementing the basilisk boss, It would always face away from me when moving towards
me, no matter what I changed its forward axis to when exporting the model, or changing its rotation
value. I eventually got it working by adding in a new boss_rotation value to the monster stats, and
setting the basilisk boss to be 90 degrees on the y-axis. My first attempt at this set the value 
to Vec3(0,90,0), but I got a TypeError as soon as I got close to a boss since I was trying to do
rotation_y(single value) += boss_rotation(class). So I just changed the Vec3() to 90.
-
FIXED: When I was implementing monster respawns, I duplicated the monster as it died, set It
to be disabled, then had an invoke function wait for a bit and enable it while the original was
destroyed. The problem with this was that upon creation, the original monster was replaced by the
duplicate which came in the form of a white cube covering most of the new monster's model, and
when the invoke function finally ran, the game crashed. I soon realised that the white cube was
actually the hitbox without wireform. I scrapped this idea, and decided to make a death method
that's called when the monster dies instead of being destroyed. The method completely disabled the 
monster, and invokes a respawn method that will reenable the monster after some time with its
original position, rotation, and health. But for some reason, this disabled the gates after a
few monster kills. I fixed this by disabling the fact that it was considered a boss/tutorial
monster, which was messing with the portals.
-
NOT-FIXED: If I spam-click the monsters, they start turning red. It would go from faint to blood red
depending on how fast I clicked. They even kept this colour after death. The cause is definitely the
blink code.



PLAYER SYSTEMS
FIXED: When building the levelup system, I created a healthbar in the UI, and created a method to
levelup. When leveling up, the player's health returns to max, and when printed out, it does. But on
screen, and when fighting a monster, the UI healthbar doesn't change at all, neither the value or 
max_value. Through debugging, I discovered the problem came from the invoke() function from the
monster class that deals damage to the player. I intially replaced it with a simple 
health -= damage * time.dt, but this resulted in many decimal places. So in the ui_state update
method, I simply made it display a rounded number.
-
FIXED: When building the teleport feature, I initially started out as having a button to
activate it, but then realised the mouse was locked so the player couldn't press any buttons. I
fixed this by replacing the button with a keybind. I will need to make the player aware of it
though. When I got to teleporting, I tried teleporting to a world I was already in, and everything
disappeared. I will need to disable the button that leads to the world the player is currently in.
I fixed it by adding in a check to see if the new scene equals the old scene before enabling or 
disabling anything.
-
FIXED: When building the teleport feature, I tried disabling all the buttons at the start, then assign 
their on_click functions when the player had been created. But this still let the player use the
button. I moved the addition of an on_click function inside the switch_scenes method so that the
button would do nothing until the world had actually been visited.



COMPUTER/DEVICE AND SOFTWARE PROBLEMS
NOT-FIXED: While working on the game, I would sometimes change computers. I'd build a feature,
save it, then pull it on another computer, and the feature would be slightly different(wall in
different position, portals and stalls rotated 90 degrees in market), but when I returned to the 
computer I made the feature on, even after changing nothing, or 'fixing' it to make it return to 
normal, the feature returned to what it was, even after saving properly.
-
NOT-CRITICAL: Although I often did work on VSC, I would sometimes get swap to thonny to debug. This
would however sometimes cause problems. I would get crashes in thonny I never got in VSC. For 
example, when building the combat system, and the hit boxes were destroyed, thonny would raise an
error in the player for loop where it checked every collider in the world, monster included which 
no longer existed. But VSC never raised such an error.
-
FIXED: I was working on the game one day at school, then went home and worked on it on my PC. As 
soon as I tried to go to the market, the game crashed, stating the stall_texture could not load
texture. After much debugging and experimenting with paths, I realised the prop texture, which was
located in the exact folder, was working fine. So I tried saving as the texture as something new.
When I plugged the new texture back into the game, I got the exact same error. But then I saw the
error: ':pnmimage:png(error): IDAT: CRC error'. This told me the image was corrupted. Going back, I
noticed on some of the image thumbnails that the image was sometimes displayed as having a corrupted
mess of green pixels. Since it was working fine on the previous devices, my theory is that this was
anchorpoints doing. To fix it, I had to go and redownload the image from where I found it.
-
NOT_CRITICAL: Sometimes I would spawn in facing a slightly different direction, sometimes not.
-
FIXED: When I worked on the game at home during the holidays, I could see the centaur boss.
But when I loaded up the game at school, the boss became invisible. I confirmed that all the other
bosses remained visible. I tried recreating the file and naming it differently so ursina didn't try
to use old models, but it was still invisible. I tried changing the boss file location code line,
model='Assets/...', to be a straight string directly to the centaur boss, but it didn't work. I changed
the model to be of the base monster, and it appeared correctly(with boss scalling and texturing). To
confirm that it was the centaur boss model, I changed the model to the basilisk boss model and it worked
fine too. I went back into version history and got an old version of the boss monster, and that fixed the
issue.
-
FIXED: When I stopped working on my PC and started doing some work on my laptop, I suddenly couldn't
open the store. I also got an error saying at_stall hadn't been initiated yet - an error I hadn't seen
before due to lack of testing. This told me that the laptop version, with exact same code, couldn't
touch the stall. Through debugging using print statements, I determined I was touching the stall, but
that the stall's collision name had been erased, and come up as " ". Before it had worked just fine with
name = self.name, where self is an entity, but to fix the issue and have it working for both devices,
I changed name to simply equal 'stall'. This made the store open, but when I walked away, the open
store icon stayed on screen, unlike on the PC where it became fully transparent. This was a simple fix
as I'd forgotten to change another stall name check to the new stall name



USER INTERFACE PROBLEMS
FIXED: When coding the UI, I wanted to display the health as a resourcebar on screen, so I used the built-in
ursina healthbar prefab. Initially, so that the player took damage every second, the damage was multiplied
by time.dt, but that resulted in multiple decimal places. So I created an invoke function delayed by a second
This worked to a point, as there was a delay for the healthbar updating - the bar itself would only
visually update when the player was moving, so the gold bar would start at 10 and work down to 0, and 
the health bar would say 2 but look like it was 15. To fix this, I created my own healthbar class. It 
took multiple attempts, and many trials such as getting everything overlapping correctly, I even thought
about returning to the prefab, but I figured it out
-
FIXED: When building the death screen, I started by created the menu from scratch, but then realised I could
create a new instance of the main menu class and call is death screen. I added in some extra parameters
so it would have different wording than the main menu, and set the revive button to call player.death().
I had to figure out how to get the background ontop of the other resource bars, for which I settled
with giving it a higher z. I then ran into a problem in player.death() where the death screen couldn't
be disabled and returned an Attribute error. To fix this, I did some debugging, and realised I was
trying to disable the function death_screen(), instead of the menu death_menu. I then ran into a 
problem where if the xp was higher than 0, the death screen wouldnt appear. It also wouldn't appear a second
time. I eventually fixed this by initializing the menu at the start without a start function, then
assigning it the first time the player died. Another bug appeared because I wanted to pause the game
when the player died, so I had to apply ignore_paused to the buttons so they could be pressed.